Pass the Ticket
In the previous section, we were able
to authenticate using Kerberos
after using the NTLM hash and the
overpass the hash technique
to get a Kerberos TGT.
However, we can only use the TGT
on the machine it was created for,
but the TGS potentially
offers more flexibility.
The Pass the Ticket attack takes
advantage of the TGS
which can be exported and re-injected
somewhere else on the network
and then used to authenticate
to a specific service.
In addition, no administrative
privileges are required
if the service tickets belong
to the current user.
While this attack does not provide
us with any additional access,
it does offer flexibility
because we are able to choose which
machine to use the ticket from.
If a service is registered with
a service principal name,
this scenario becomes more interesting.
As we have shown, we could crack
the service account password hash
and obtain the password
from the service ticket.
This password could then be used to access
resources available to the service account
However, if the service account is not
a local administrator on any servers,
we would not be able to
perform lateral movement
using technique such as pass
the hash or overpass the hash.
In this case we would need
to use a different approach.
Remembering how the Kerberos
authentication works,
the application on the server executing in
the context of the service account
checks the user’s permissions
from the group's permissions
included in the service ticket.
However, the user and group permissions
in the service ticket
are not verified by the application.
The application blindly trusts the
integrity of the service ticket
since it is encrypted
with a password hash,
that in theory is only known to the
service account and the domain controller.
For example, if we authenticate
against an IIS server
that is executing in the context of
the service account iis_service,
the IIS application will determine which
permissions we have on the IIS server
based on the group memberships
contained in the service ticket.
However, with the service account password
or its associated NTLM hash at hand,
we can forge our own service ticket
to access the IIS application
with any permissions we want.
This custom-created ticket is
known as a silver ticket
and if the service principal name
is used on multiple servers,
the silver ticket can be
leveraged against them all.
Mimikatz can create a silver ticket
and inject it straight into memory
through the misleadingly-named
kerberos::golden command.
To create the ticket, we first need
to obtain the so-called
Security Identifier or
SID of the domain.
We can easily find the SID of our current
user with the whoami /user command…
and then extract the
domain SID part from it.
The SID defining the domain is the entire
string except the RID, 1104, at the end.
Now that we have the domain SID,
we can craft a silver ticket for the
IIS service we previously discovered.
Before we do, we will flush any existing
Kerberos tickets with kerberos::purge,
and verify the purge with kerberos::list.
The silver ticket command requires a
username and domain name,
the domain SID,
the fully qualified host
name of the service,
the service type,
and the password hash of the
iis_service service account.
Finally, the generated silver ticket is
injected directly into memory
with the /ppt flag.
After running the command a
new service ticket for the SPN
HTTP/CorpWebServer.corp.com
has been loaded into memory,
and Mimikatz set appropriate
group membership permission
in the forged ticket.
From the perspective of the IIS
application, the current user will be both
the built-in local administrator,
and a member of several
highly-privileged groups including
the domain admins group.
Now that we have this ticket
loaded into memory,
we can interact with the service
and access any information
based on the group memberships
we put in the silver ticket.